passwordProtocol.txt

[FIRST DRAFT: UPDATED VERSION AT THE BOTTOM]
I wasn't sure if I should delete this old information or not, I thought it may be good to show progress.

The password protocol I have created puts requirements on the user's password, salts it, and then uses SHA256 to hash the password. 
The hash is stored in a data structure, and future login attempts will hash the user's entered password, then check that its hash is in
the struture.

Note: The salting process has been removed because it is random, and therefore comparing password hexes would never result in a successful
login, since the same password would have different salt added to it.

Program description:

This program prompts a user for a password, with constraints, and stores the hash of it to simulate a password protocol.

Math:
The SHA256 function works by converting the password into binary, padding it to be 512 bits long (or a multiple of 512). These 512 bits
are then broken into 16 blocks of 32 bits each, and then expanded into 64 bits. These blocks are put into the algorithm that uses bitwise 
functions like shifts, chooses, and majority. This results in 8 hash values, which are concatenated to be the final hash value.

Output description:

The user can either login or create a new password. 
If create a new password is selected:

1. 
    The user is prompted to enter a password and is shown the constraints for their password. An invalid input will restart the program.

    The user's entered password is shown along with a generated salt and the concatenation of them.

2.
    The salted password is converted to binary and padded to be 512 bits long.

3.
    The padded input is broken into 32-bit chunks and converted to hex.
    This is now ready for the actual hash computation.

4.
    SHA256 extends the 16 words into 64 using a special formula to ensure diffusion.
    
5.
    The hashing algorithm processes the input through multiple rounds.
    Registers (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h) represent intermediate hash values.
    In each round, these values are updated using logical operations, modular addition, and bitwise shifts.


The final hash is shown after all 64 rounds are completed.

If login is selected:

[UPDATED INFO]

This program performs as described in my main paper. A user is asked to login, signup, or quit the program. When a user signs up, 
the username they enter is stored in the system, along with a salt. These two things and the password they enter are concatenated and
the hash of the concatenation is stored. The username, salt, and hash are are stored in relation to each other. When a user chooses to 
login, the entered username is looked for in the system storage. It takes the username and the associated salt, concatenates it with 
password entered by the user trying to login, and hashes it. This hash is compared to the one stored in the system, and whether they
match determines if access is granted or not.